---
title: Tips for the Swift Student Challenge 
date: 2025-07-22
slug: ssc-tips
excerpt: Someone messaged me recently asking how my experience applying to SSC was, and I figured that other people might also get some use out of the list of tips I made. 
---
# Tips for the Swift Student Challenge  

Someone messaged me recently asking how my experience applying to SSC was, and I figured that other people might also get some use out of the list of tips I made. 
For context, I applied twice for the Swift Student Challenge - once in 2021, and once in 2022. I failed miserably my first year but won the year after :) 

Here's the stuff I learned from 2 years of wwdc-ing: 
- Apple judges will compile your code on the spot, run it on the spot, and literally see how your code looks like. It’s not a prerecorded demo, so having your app work reliably with (relatively) clean code is a top priority. 
- Submit at least 1 week before the deadline - trust me you do not want to be trying to fix stuff right before the deadline - it leads to more unstable code and also the amount of stress will be unreal just plan to submit early. 
- It’s a “Swift Playgrounds app experience”, not an app - this is an important distinction! Even if an app is great for the app store, it might not be a good “experience”, and vice versa. Aim to create something that can be fully experienced in ~2-3 minutes. “App experiences” do NOT have to have long-term download value, but it should be a nifty 2 minute experience.
- Essays matter!! the “optional” prompts are not optional if you wanna win, I have seen nobody in the past 4 years win without doing the optional essays. Think them through and plan them just as well as your actual app. 
- Make a hundred thousand backups of every stage of your app because you never know when it will break out of nowhere. 
- Head over to [https://www.wwdcscholars.com/](https://www.wwdcscholars.com/)[^1] to see past winners’ projects and profiles. it’s pretty insightful on what kind of projects apple likes (especially for each age group). Usually learning/accessibility/security/general apple fanboying is a safe bet but not a surefire solution so don’t limit yourself to what you see on here!
- Join the WWDCScholars[^1] discord server if you want to tackle this seriously, there’s tons of people there working on the challenge and you can ask for help, get info, and whatnot. 
- There is a Swift Playgrounds app setting to show detailed error messages - turn it on! 

[^1]: the Swift Student Challenge used to be called the WWDC Scholarship
